For almost 20 years, since its debut in 1979, Bob Edwards  has presided over the National Public Radio news magazine ``Morning Edition.''
 But from the start, the soothing, avuncular tone that is Edwards'  trademark raised certain questions.
 Like a number of other high-profile NPR news-magazine hosts or news readers, Edwards  conveys a distinct sense of disengagement with the subjects he is presenting: the latest Serbian atrocities or an odd little cow-up-a-tree human-interest story from Iowa.
 It's shared by the ``All Things Considered'' hosts, Robert Siegel and Linda Wertheimer, and the hourly news reader Ann Taylor as, year by year, day by day, they wend their way through the vagaries of events and time.
 With Edwards , boredom might be the product.
 Pleasantly, like a neighbor who drops in for coffee every morning at precisely the same time, Edwards  conveys the feeling that nothing can really surprise him.
 Not only will the sun rise tomorrow, Edwards'  performance says, it will rise tomorrow in exactly the same manner in which it rose today.
 Set forth in a less kindly manner, the same story is told by Siegel , Ms. Wertheimer and Ms. Taylor.
 Edwards'  patience is replaced by impatience.
 The bored, contemptuous, irritated assumption seems to be that while, say, Bill Clinton  is transitory, Siegel  or Ms. Wertheimer _ and, by implication, the faithful NPR listener _ are permanent.
 The White House correspondent, Mara Liasson, or the legal affairs correspondent, Nina Totenberg, may offer detailed, nuanced and, most importantly, involved reports.
 But with Siegel  or Ms. Wertheimer sweeping up, it is all translated into attitude.
 Ms. Wertheimer and the afternoon news reader, Ms. Taylor, share the remarkable ability to look down their noses while talking through them.
 Siegel  works differently.
 There's a lot of Dick Cavett  in Siegel's  interviewing style.
 The antiphon to the cool school of NPR broadcasting is provided by Terry Gross of ``Fresh Air,'' the daily one-hour interview and arts program that originates from public radio station WHYY in Philadelphia.
 Ms. Gross, 47, is the host and principal interviewer; speaking on the phone last week, she guessed that since the program began more than 20 years ago, she has done 9,000 or 10,000 interviews.
 Ms. Gross is characteristically eager, but not naive.
 In a recent interview with Eddie Miller , author of the unreadably preening true-crime novel ``Another Day in Paradise'' _ this is all true, one is supposed to believe, they just had to change the names _ Miller answered every other question with some variation of ``That's in the book.'' He spoke in a slow, gravelly, leering voice; as an armed robber, he said, he had lived ``the American dream in person.
 He met Ms. Gross' questions with heavy sighs, as if to say: ``Where's this chick been all her life? Man, do I have to explain everything? It's in the book!'' 
 Asked about how he felt while committing robbery, Miller  began to laugh, with a smug insistence that he knew things Ms. Gross would never know.
 ``What's so funny?'' Ms. Gross asked in her high, pleasant, disarming voice _ a voice that in an instant had turned into a knife _ and finally Miller  started talking.
 ``Fresh Air'' started as a local show in Philadelphia in 1975, Ms. Gross explained when we talked last week.
 Just like ``American Bandstand,'' I said, thinking of Dick Clark's  1950s rock `n' roll dance party, perhaps Philadelphia's other signal contribution to American broadcasting.
 ``Yeah!'' Ms. Gross said.
 The latest settlers have little interest in the cyberstate of nature or the utopian manifestoes of pioneers, like John Perry Barlow's  oft-cited ``A Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace,'' which defied any state's assertion of control over the Internet.
 ``It's like when you start a colony,'' said Mike Godwin , chief counsel for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an advocacy group that only a few years ago was practically alone in the field.
 How is monopoly measured in an information age? _ A White House aide, Sidney Blumenthal , sues an Internet gossip columnist, Matt Drudge,  for libel.
 Moreover, can Drudge  be sued in the District of Columbia for an item that he posted on his World Wide Web site in Los Angeles? 
 Cindy Cohn, the lawyer representing the math professor, said it was in part the lure of the unknown that made cyberspace law so appealing.
 ``It's a chance to think about first-level questions,'' said Ms. Cohn, a partner in the McGlashan &AMP; Sarrail firm in San Mateo, Calif.
 Ms. Cohn is scheduled to testify Tuesday before a Senate Judiciary Committee subcommittee on proposed encryption legislation.
 ``There is anxiety, yes,'' said Judge Stewart Dalzell , a federal circuit court judge.
 Earlier this month, Harvard Law School said it had received a $5.4 million donation from the estate of Jack N. Berkman , an alumnus, and his wife, Lillian R. Berkman to support its Center for Internet and Society, which was established last year and is overseen by Jonathan Zittrain  , the executive director.
 Prof. Charles Nesson , the center's director, said the money would be used in part to experiment with opening up the gates of the august institution to the general public.
 First to be named to the Berkman chair was Lawrence Lessig , whose appointment by a federal district judge as special master in the government's antitrust case against Microsoft did much to raise the profile of the nascent field of cyberspace legal theory.
 The school has offered visiting professorships to two intellectual property experts: James Boyle   from American University and Robert Mergess , the co-director of the Berkeley Center for Law and Technology at the University of California.
 ``Yale is going to be the place to be for cyberlaw,'' said Jack Balkin , director of the school's program.
 ``The competition has definitely heated up,'' said Pam Samuelson, who helped found Berkeley's center two years ago and hopes that Mergess  will stay put.
 Ms. Samuelson, a leading critic of the Clinton  administration's proposal to adapt copyright law to cyberspace, said Berkeley's advantage was being in the midst of the industry that is creating so many of today's legal challenges.
 Ms. Samuelson said that centers like Berkeley's would teach different skills and values than the traditional law school curriculum has taught.
 ``Rather than trying to develop fixed sets of black-letter law rules that you can memorize and then apply, this requires that students learn to be supple and adaptable,'' Ms. Samuelson said.
 Michael Froomkin  at the University of Miami has published several articles on law and cryptography, for example; Dan Burk  at Seton Hall University is an expert on jurisdictional issues in cyberspace.
 David Post , co-founder of the Cyberspace Law Institute and now a professor at Temple University Law School, is at the center of an active debate among lawyers about whether the emergence of cyberspace requires a whole new legal model.
 Among them is Judge Frank Easterbrook  of the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and a professor at the University of Chicago.
 ``Maybe dividing the world up into real space and cyberspace is artificial,'' said Brian Dally , 26, a student in Lessig's cyberspace law class.
